Engineer /  
Technical Officer 
Position description  
 
Engineer / Technical Officer 
V12025 
Page 1 
Position details 
 
 
Position title: 
Engineer / Technical Officer – Road Design 
Position number: 
70005510, 70005519, 70005586 
Group: 
Network Design and Integration 
Division: 
Assets and Engineering / Design Services 
Classification: 
VPS 3 
Position type: 
Ongoing  
Position time equivalent: 
Full time (flexibility will be considered) 
Position reports to position: 
Team Leader Road Design 
Position usual place or places of work: 
Sunshine or Ringwood (flexibility may be available) 
Position contact: 
Vincent Nguyen (Senior Manager Road Design – 
vincent.nguyen@transport.vic.gov.au) 
About the Department of Transport and Planning  
We create thriving places and connected communities. We bring together transport, planning, land use, 
precinct and policy functions in a single department to deliver the best outcomes for Victorians.  
Together with our portfolio agencies, we are responsible for planning, building, operating and maintaining 
Victoria’s transport, planning and land services for use by all.  
We foster a safe, inclusive and constructive place to work.  
About the group 
Network Design and Integration delivers transport priorities through the planning, development and 
maintenance of an integrated pipeline of projects and strategic initiatives that provide safe, efficient and 
sustainable outcomes to all Victorians. 
Assets and Engineering Division (A&E) enables a safe, resilient and fit-for-purpose Victorian transport system 
through whole of lifecycle decisions based on systematic and disciplined technical excellence.  A&E influence 
each stage of the Victorian transport asset lifecycle to realise a reliable transport network for our 
communities, through policy, planning, investment and technical standards. 
Our work optimises the value and sustainability of allocated resources (capital and operating) across the 
Victorian transport portfolio and its asset base 
We’re focused on outcomes that deliver more choice, connections and confidence in our travel, ensuring the 
whole transport network works as one to deliver better services and outcomes. 
Design Services is a multidiscipline design branch within A&E that provides expert quality technical advice 
and design services for our clients across the Department, including expertise in geotechnical, pavement, 
structural and road design. 

 
 
Engineer / Technical Officer 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 2
V1 2025
About this position 
Position purpose and context 
The Engineer / Technical Officer Road Design sits within Design Services branch and is responsible for the 
design, documentation and delivery of road design and traffic engineering projects within DTP’s pipeline of 
work under sound supervision as assigned by Team Leader Road Design. 
The role’s responsibility will include, under sound supervision, the design development of projects at all 
stages, from conceptual design, through to full detailed design and plan production, and provision of advice 
and review for the whole of the life of the project.   
Tasks will involve design development of intersection functional layouts, horizontal and vertical geometric 
design of roadways, design of roadside infrastructure such as safety barrier, drainage design and 
modifications to existing networks, signage and linemarking, sign face design, development of 3D models for 
construction purposes, quantity extraction, drawing production and associated documentation and 
reporting.  Design development tasks are facilitated using Bentley Systems MicroStation and OpenRoads 
platforms under sound supervision within agreed timeframes and budgets.   
Embedded into our work is the ongoing commitment to Safe Systems principles, providing a safe road 
network for Victorians. 
Position accountabilities 
– Accountability 1 - Road Design and Traffic Engineering Delivery: Utilises foundational working knowledge 
of road design and traffic engineering frameworks, policies, standards and guidelines to develop, design 
and document road design and traffic engineering projects in both the Victorian rural and urban road 
environments, under sound supervision within agreed timeframes and budgets. 
– Accountability 2 - Stakeholder Management: Develops and maintains effective relationships with peers 
and customers across DTP, as required, and understands and addresses stakeholder issues under sound 
supervision. 
– Accountability 3 - Communication: Prepare reports, briefs and correspondence on complex issues that 
impact at project level. Convey specialist concepts and advice in alignment with design guidelines under 
sound supervision. 
– In line with Section 31A of the Public Administration Act 2004 (Vic) other duties may be assigned consistent 
with employment classification, skills, and capabilities. 
Key selection criteria 
Core Victorian Public Service (VPS) capabilities  
– Core VPS Capability 1 - Working Collaboratively (Foundational) - Cooperates and works well with others in 
pursuit of team goals; Share information and acknowledge others’ efforts; Step in to help others where 
required 
– Core VPS Capability 2 - Project Delivery (Foundational) – Executes work tasks against plan; where plans 
are not defined, prioritises tasks in line with the urgency and impact of tasks; Utilises approved task 
management tools; Maintains accurate project records. 
– Core VPS Capability 3 - Critical Thinking and Problem Solving (Foundational) - Seeks resolution of 
problems through policy or process guidelines; Otherwise seeks guidance by providing information and 

 
 
Engineer / Technical Officer 
 
 
                                                                                                                                              Page 3
V1 2025
ideas relevant towards resolution of problem. Understands concepts enabling improvements in critical 
thinking and problem solving. 
– Core VPS Capability 4 - Professional Knowledge (Foundational) - Displays a theory-based knowledge of 
the fundamentals of engineering disciplines. Identifies and describes the basic principles pertinent to a 
specific area of engineering practice and context. Analyses data to systematically design engineering 
solutions to address a well-defined problem. Adheres to engineering professional, workplace and statutory 
controls, policies and codes for ethics, compliance and risk. Creates and maintains documentation and 
data associated with a small-scale engineering project. 
– Core VPS Capability 5 - Flexibility and Adaptability (Foundational) – Considers the merits of new ideas 
and approaches. Is willing to develop and apply new skills. 
 
Technical capabilities  
– DTP Technical Capability 1 - Geometric Road Design and Documentation (Foundational): Incorporating 
functional road and traffic engineering design. Has a foundational level of understanding of the road and 
traffic engineering design standards and guidelines. Can apply this understanding in the design and 
documentation of road design and traffic engineering to suit site-specific constraints and environment. 
– DTP Technical Capability 2 - Roadside and Ancillary Elements Design (Foundational): Incorporating barrier 
design and roadside safety.  Has a foundational level of understanding of the roadside infrastructure 
design policies, standards and guidelines and can integrate this into the overall road design.  
– DTP Technical Capability 3 - Cadd Skills (Foundational): Incorporating 2D layouts, 3D modelling and plan 
production.  Has a foundational level of understanding and application in the use of Bentley Systems 
MicroStation and OpenRoads platforms to undertake road design tasks.  May also have a working 
knowledge of other programs such as CaddPro, AutoTurn and GuideSign. 
Qualifications and Experience  
– Relevant tertiary qualification in Civil Engineering (mandatory) 
– Knowledge of road design, roadside infrastructure and drainage, applying relevant standards and 
guidelines such as Austroads Guide to Road Design, relevant DTP Supplements and other relevant 
guidelines in relation to road design in both rural and urban road environments (desirable) 
– Experience in the use of Bentley Software, including MicroStation Connect, OpenRoads Designer and 
Projectwise (desirable) 
Other position-specific requirements 
– Victorian Driver’s License 
– Construction Induction Card (White Card) 
– Ability to travel within the state for site inspections 
Ordinary hours of work 
Ordinary hours of work are Monday to Friday between 7:00am and 7:00pm.  
 
Why work for the Department of Transport and Planning? 
 
Careers at the Department of Transport and Planning 
