-->
 Join Our Team - Engineering Careers at Osborn Consulting Engineers 
 top of page 
 Home
 Our Services
 Bridge Engineering 
 Industrial Engineering 
 Civil Engineering 
 Mechanical Engineering 
 Commercial & Architectural 
 Project Management Services 
 People and Careers
 Contact us
 Our Team
 More
 Use tab to navigate through the menu items.
 Join Our Engineering Team 
 Looking for a new career opportunity? Join Osborn Consulting today. 
 Join us at Osborn Consulting Engineers and help shape the future of engineering! 
 Osborn Consulting  Engineers values culture, innovation, teamwork and passion.  We look for those same values in the people who join our team. 
 ​ ​ 
 Current Openings 
 We are currently seeking passionate professionals to join our team in various positions. Candidates who thrive in a collaborative setting, possess strong problem-solving skills, and are dedicated to delivering high-quality results are encouraged to apply. 
 ​ ​ ​ 
 ​ 
 ​ 
 Principal Engineer
Our Principal Engineers: 
• Develop and manage engineering teams to service the Infrastructure market, ensuring cohesion across Civil, Structural and Geotechnical engineering disciplines 
• Work collaboratively with national engineering and project management resources to create opportunities, respond to project needs, and deliver multidisciplinary projects 
• Interface regularly with members of the Executive Team to provide project and client updates and reporting, and input into strategic plans 
• Are Chartered Engineers (with practising qualifications in each relevant discipline), and have over 12 years' relevant experience working on client projects in a hands-on capacity
 Lead Structural Engineer
Our Lead Engineer
Reporting to the Stream Lead, you will be responsible for leading design and/or assessment teams across a range of structural projects. Your responsibilities will include but not be limited to:
•Being responsible for technical delivery of a wide range of structural projects including mineral processing facilities and other heavy infrastructure, and ideally capable of extending to commercial buildings, residential developments, fit-out, aged care and educational facilities.
•Carry out concept and detailed design of structures and liaise with drafting team for deliverables
•Undertake assessment of existing structures, extending into asset life extension
•Preparation of proposals and being responsible for project costings, monitoring project performance and budgets.
•Work within Australian Standards and established industry practices.
•Liaises with clients, statutory authorities, and other consultants
•Lead and coordinate with other engineering staff.
•Assist junior team members and mentor up and coming young talented engineers.
•Working closely with a diverse client base, responding efficiently to client's needs, including attendance at meetings and inspections. 
•Contribute to technical development across the various structural disciplines.
 Lead Civil Engineer
Our Lead Civil Engineer
•Ability to lead and engage in a collaborative way, focusing on development of people, culture, and outcomes.
•Developed, or ability to develop, lasting relationships with key stakeholders, with a keen aptitude to work with clients to achieve practical and optimise outcomes.
•Ability to mentor and nurture our staff with a keen interest in assisting with the career development of everyone in the team.
•Technical skills to lead in the delivery of relevant Civil Engineering services with a passion for best practises, continuous improvement, and innovation. 
•You will be a permanent resident of Australia or hold/be progressing towards, Australian Citizenship.
•Bachelor’s degree in Engineering, with 7+ years’ relevant experience and CPEng/RPEQ credentials
 Civil Designer / Drafter
We are actively seeking a competent and capable Civil designer who is looking for a 3-6 month contract/casual position based in Ipswich, starting May 2025.
Osborn Consulting have multiple offices, Brisbane, Mount Isa, Warwick, Ipswich, Gold Coast and remote other locations. We may be just the company you wish to start your engineering career with.
 Get in Touch with us today.
 Graduates / Undergraduates
If you are studying towards a Bachelor of Engineering qualification or have recently graduated and looking for hands on practical approach and interesting / exciting projects then reach out to us.
Osborn Consulting have multiple offices, Brisbane, Mount Isa, Warwick, Ipswich, Gold Coast and remote other locations. We may be just the company you wish to start your engineering career with.
 Get in Touch with us today.
 Job Opportunity Join Osborn Consulting Engineers 
 ​With over four decades of experience, Osborn Consulting Engineers has been a trusted provider of engineering services throughout all stages of a project—from concept design to construction. Based in the Southeast, we pride ourselves on our commitment to excellence and innovation in every project we undertake. 
 Why join us? 
 As we expand our operations, we are looking for highly motivated individuals who are ready to take the next step in their career. At Osborn Consulting Engineers, you will have the opportunity to work on diverse and challenging projects while enjoying a balanced work-life lifestyle. We believe that our employees are our greatest asset, and we strive to create a dynamic, supportive environment that fosters professional growth and personal fulfillment. 
 ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ 
 ​ What we offer 
 Competitive salary and benefits package 
 Opportunities for professional development and advancement 
 A collaborative and supportive work environment 
 Work on innovative projects with a focus on sustainability and efficiency 
 Flexible work arrangements to promote work-life balance 
 If you are ready to elevate your career and make a significant impact in the field of engineering, we want to hear from you! 
 How to apply: 
 Interested candidates are invited to submit their resume and a cover letter detailing their relevant experience to admin@osbornconsulting.com.au or via the submission box below: 
 ​ ​ 
 ​ 
 ​ 
 ​ 
 ​ 
 We Are Hiring 
 First name 
 Last name 
 Email 
 Phone 
 Applying for Select position 
 Applying for Area of Interest 
 Next 
 Contact Us Today 
 Contact Us 
 Looking to start a new project? Contact the team at Osborn Consulting today to discuss your future plans. Our experts are here to help you every step of the way. 
 © 2015 by ​Osborn Consulting Engineers Pty, Ltd. 
 Privacy Policy 
 bottom of page
